## description: quick help for Abuild.groovy files

This help file provides a quick reminder on using Abuild.groovy files.
For additional details, please consult the abuild manual.

General Abuild.groovy Help
--------------------------

Abuild.groovy files are interpreted by groovy and contain groovy code.
Most Abuild.groovy files should do nothing other than setting abuild
parameters.  All Abuild.groovy files must set either abuild.rules or
abuild.localRules.  The preferred syntax is

parameters {
    abuild.rules = 'rulename'
}

The abuild.rules parameter should be set to the name of a rule set.

To see what rules are available, run

abuild --help rules list

To get help on a specific set of rules, run

abuild --help rules rule:rulesetname

For example

abuild --help rules rule:java

Most Abuild.groovy files will include a parameter block that sets
abuild.rules to 'java' and sets additional parameters as required by
the 'java' rule set.

Custom Targets
--------------

When adding custom targets, set abuild.localRules to the name of a
file that contains the rules.  For example:

parameters {
    abuild.localRules = 'local.groovy'
}

Abuild targets defined within groovy have associated dependencies and
closures.  From the context of a groovy rules file, you can always
access the abuild object under the name "abuild" and the current ant
project as a groovy ant builder under the name "ant".

The abuild object offers a number of methods for configuring targets.
A commonly used one is "addTargetClosure", which adds additional code
to be run when a given target is invoked.  For example, the following
block of code in a local rules file would invoke ant's "echo" task
with the message 'hello' when the "all" abuild target is built:

abuild.addTargetClosure('all') {
    ant.echo('message': 'hello')
}

You can access parameters and interface variables by using the
abuild.resolve method.  For example, abuild.resolve('VAR') would
provide the value of the VAR parameter or interface variable.

For additional details, please consult the abuild manual.
